OSDOCS6989: Changed content in OpenStack: Deploy control plane nodes via MachineSet (#64454)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cpmso-openstack-ts-az-config.adoc

> // Module included in the following assemblies:

Reviewer: This whole block needs rework, if the attempt was to describe https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7024383 - then you need to say that if customers deployed OCP 4.13 clusters with root Volumes without AZ AND compute AZ, then they'll need to update the Machines; It's all explained in the solution. Please have a look at it and let me know what's not clear.

But I'm not sure where you pulled the content bellow, this is totally unrelated to https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7024383.

Author: Got that. I will change accordingly.

Author: Done. ptal.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/control_plane_machine_management/cpmso-troubleshooting.adoc

> :_content-type: REFERENCE

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:_content-type: PROCEDURE
```

Author: Done

[id="cpmso-openstack-ts-az-config_{context}"]

> = Configuring {rh-openstack} Availability Zones type

Reviewer 2: No need to capitalize "availability zones."

Author: Ack.

> = Configuring {rh-openstack} Availability Zones type

Author: Yeah, @maxwelldb any better suggestion? 
"Configuring {rh-openstack} clusters for availability zones"? Since we are configuring the clusters with respect to AZs so that the control plane machine is created.

> = Configuring {rh-openstack} Availability Zones type

Reviewer 2: Configuring upgraded clusters that run on {rh-openstack} and use availability zones?

> = Configuring {rh-openstack} Availability Zones type

Author: Or "Configuring {rh-openstack} with compute availability zones" [OpenShift on OpenStack with compute Availability Zones: Missing rootVolume availability zone](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7024383)

and for the other one "Configuring {rh-openstack} with availability zones". [penShift on OpenStack with Availability Zones: Invalid Compute ServerGroup setup during OpenShift deployment](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7013893)

How about this?

> = Configuring {rh-openstack} Availability Zones type

Author: @jeana-redhat Any suggestions???

> You have installed a cluster on {rh-openstack-first} or on existing {product-title} cluster version 4.13 or lower, and the root volumes are deployed without updating Availability Zones (AZ) in the `install-config.yaml` file. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you upgrade a cluster on {rh-openstack-first} from version 4.13 to 4.14 that uses root volumes with availability zones, you must manually configure machine plane machine resources to use control plane machine sets.
```
Or something like that.

Author: Better than before.

This makes the root volume availability zone to be taken from the compute availability zone, which is not available in cinder. The control plane machine cannot be created. 

[NOTE]
====
For the {product-title} clusters version 4.14 and higher, the installers validate the root AZ in `install-congif.yaml` file and ensures the deployment to be continued.

> ====

Reviewer 2: This idea could go after the first sentence.

'If you're upgrading, do this. If you're starting with 4.14, this is all done automatically.'

Author: Changed it to:- If you are starting with the {product-title} cluster, version 4.14, this process is done automatically. If you are  upgrading, follow the steps.

For the clusters deployed before the {product-title} version 4.14, you need to manually update the control plane machine resources, so that they are updated on the instances.

[NOTE]
====

> Manually editing control plane machine resources does not update the control plane instances. However, it is necessary in order for the `cluster-control-plane-machine-set-operator` to correctly generate a `ControlPlaneMachineSet` for your cluster.

Reviewer 2: If something is necessary, it should be part of the main text or else boxed off as `IMPORTANT`.

Author: It was actually an additional info. Let me add this as an [IMPORTANT] text.

====

. Update the `ProviderSpec`, for all the control plane machines matching the environment, and set the property `rootVolume.availabilityZone` of `spec.providerSpec` to the value of the actual volume AZ (example with `master-0`):
+
[source,terminal]
----

> oc edit machine/<cluster_id>-master-0 -n openshift-machine-api

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ oc edit machine/<cluster_id>-master-0 -n openshift-machine-api
```

Author: Changed.

> <make edits>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<make edits>
```
Are there edits to make here beside setting properties?

Author: I don't think so.

----
+

> [source,Sample Output]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,yaml]
```

Author: Done

----
providerSpec:
  value:
    apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1alpha1
    availabilityZone: az0
      cloudName: openstack
    cloudsSecret:
      name: openstack-cloud-credentials
      namespace: openshift-machine-api
    flavor: m1.xlarge
    image: rhcos-4.14
    kind: OpenstackProviderSpec
    metadata:
      creationTimestamp: null
    networks:    
    - filter: {}
      subnets:  
      - filter:
          name: refarch-lv7q9-nodes
          tags: openshiftClusterID=refarch-lv7q9
    rootVolume:

>         availabilityZone: nova <--- Add the zone name here

Reviewer 2: Good place to use a callout.

Author: Done

        diskSize: 30
        sourceUUID: rhcos-4.12
        volumeType: fast-0
    securityGroups:
    - filter: {}
      name: refarch-lv7q9-master
    serverGroupName: refarch-lv7q9-master
    serverMetadata:
      Name: refarch-lv7q9-master
      openshiftClusterID: refarch-lv7q9
    tags:
    - openshiftClusterID=refarch-lv7q9
    trunk: true
    userDataSecret:
      name: master-user-data
----

> . In case you updated your control plane machine resources after install, follow these steps. 

Reviewer 2: I just see one step after this one. I think that a post-installation resource update should either be an explicitly optional step or a separate module, depending on the task flow.

Author: According to the source, apart from these steps only causes and diagnostic steps were given. Should I include them?

.. In your {rh-openstack} cluster, find the AZ of the root volumes for your control plane machines and set it in the `availabilityZone` property of all the control plane machines.

> [NOTE]
> ====
> Once all the control plane machines have a root volume AZ, your control plane is ready to be managed by the Cluster Control Plane Machine Set operator and a `ControlPlaneMachineSet` (CPMS) will be created.
> ====

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After all of the control plane machines have a root volume availability zone, your control plane is ready to be managed by the Cluster Control Plane Machine Set Operator. The Operator will generate a control plane machine set for you.
```

Verify for accuracy. I'm just in editing mode.

Author: Ack. Technically accurate.
